coach first of all I know you just made
a higher with james paton talk a little
bit about him and what he brings to the
table for Indiana well Don you know in
losing coach Hagan we had two coaches on
the defensive line so first thing we
tried to address you know we're losing a
d-line coach got to some special teams
and a guy that recruited certain area so
can you answer things internally
externally one thought we started with
was maybe having one constant voice with
the d-line one coach in the meetings all
the time in every staff meeting with the
players because last year certain times
co taking the lead for special teams for
meetings on the field and coach fabrice
relieved we're passing guys off so it
starts with John fantasies going to man
the whole front for i think that
position still need some help we could
put a ga there but the thought process
was instead of having different coaches
assigned to cover a certain team james
patents coming in is going to manage the
special teams not be the special teams
quote coordinator we're going to keep
doing what we're doing not total changes
all our coaches are involved he'll
manage special teams make sure
everything's covered he'll also manage
recruiting coordinator which is we have
internal recruiting help but just to
make sure all those things are going
then doesn't have a true position so
he's a little bit free to do some of
that management and when he's on the
field he's going to assist coach Fabrice
James's background played at my bow high
oh I was a heck of a player force team
captain all-conference kid tough as
nails played his tail off for us it was
a ga for me as an offensive line coach
we hired him back at Miami for one year
they went the northwestern he moved 20
line when I went to Oklahoma a few years
later he followed down and was been in
Oklahoma for seven years so he's got
seven years ago you seven years at
Northwestern seven years at Miami of
Ohio he's in ohio native his wife's from
Fort Wayne so we're gonna get some more
season tickets out of out of the fort
wayne area coming down so a great hire a
great person lot of energy i hate to
lose coach hagen but i think we got a
big time replacement to be it's good
it's a great heart force coach you had a
tremendous signing day one of the best
that indiana has ever had from what we
understand since certainly the best
rated class ever but just your thoughts
on this particular class again you need
better like and because you got him
we're trying to actually complement the
class to with some quality wall cones
we've done that the last few years we
even had freshmen wall cones play last
year and i thought last year's class was
good we're going to try to continue to
find a few more pieces being in the
state school or some good kids that
can't talk about those guys care still
technically recruits because they don't
sign but the kids we sign 22 kids five
with interstate 4 from Indianapolis one
young man from homestead Fort Wayne
quality programs in state kids big time
players we think am I like him as kids
it's nice that they're rated high but
when you meet their families and meet
them as people you like them as young
men and you know we won't have good
people as well as good players I think
they're potentially high in players
really like him as young men one young
guy from the Illinois region a big tight
end got versatility both sides of the
ball for kids out of Ohio so 10 in the
Midwest went down south 494 in Georgia
five in Florida in three junior college
players one out of New York as well so
22 total a lot of defensive help we
don't lose a lot on offense we don't
have a senior offensive lineman next
year Don we don't have a senior
quarterback we've got some quality
players some competition there so throw
in a lot of guys in the defensive front
defensive skill and then the offensive
skill was the gist of what we're doing
the other thing I'll say too we want to
talk about kickers right you can ask me
the kicker question one on our team
right now maybe one of our premier
leaders and players on our team as Mitch
Ewald pretty solid air we're trying to
complement that with a quality walk-on
or two punting wise we feel pretty good
about Eric toe with he's not on
scholarship yet did a nice job at the
end and Nick camp posts internal is two
guys but we need some consistent
performance before we throw a
scholarship out there and in this day
and age the transition from high school
to college kicking it's a little shaky
it's a different games like playing
playing where you go back and play from
the tips and play it down when you're
playing golf it's a different game and
so you better be sure when you go for a
high school guy so hopefully I think
we've got some depth and will complement
those positions with whoa cones talk a
little bit about your winter
conditioning program where you're at
with it and of course you got the spring
coming up here shortly we've had five
six weeks of good lifting with running
two days a week we have player run
practices we're still like trying to
throw balls and keep the schemes and the
football side but as coaches we can't be
a part of that when our players run two
days a week about an hour practice on
their own kind you doing this summer
keep the football going on we just
started here going to spring bar our
morning workouts are Joey programs will
lead that up until the day before spring
ball we're going a couple
times a week there we're doing a big
emphasis of again with the agility of
leadership we have done a nice job of
developing leaders but we got to get
leaders on the field off the field we've
got some guys in charge leading our team
on the field this winter time this
winter stations this winter conditioning
is where if we start to make a step and
become a winning program our leadership
on the field is going to pick up and our
standard of how we compete how we work
we also are doing some significant heavy
lifting 19 starters back a lot of guys
back but we're still we got 14 of those
starters freshmen sophomores they need
to get better because they're just a
foreign a team so it's a heavy lifting
time some football skill time and then
this team building under winter program
coach I know you're always trying to get
weight on some of these kids are you
accomplishing that right now I'm going
through the sheet on my desk over there
what there goes everything has a target
we have we weigh in every week like a
fighter would and we target you with a
way to earning value for fire little
internal groups we do or we gain points
for our little internal teams with team
leaders in one of our goals is you take
care of your body and if you have a
target weight whether you're gaining
weight or losing weight you make that
target so we've targeted kids starting
spring ball target weight and I think
we're on track ball see we need to
continue to get faster but we got to get
bigger and stronger as we do those
things